Now you understand the string methods.
But in order to finish learning everything about strings, we need to learn a bit more about their properties.
First of all, strings are immutable, which means that once they have been constructed, you cannot
change their internal order or alter their contents.
Maybe it's confusing because you have already been able to extract some strings from a larger string,
alter their order, and even replace part of their content with another one.
But keep in mind that we have done all this by using other variables where we apply the transformation
and even by rewriting the same variable.
Remember that we are not talking about variables because they can vary.
We are talking about the string itself, which is immutable and we will check it in the code in a moment.
Another feature of strings is that they can be concatenated.
We have already checked this by using the plus sign and we're going to link that with the next property
because if we use the asterisk sign, we can multiply strings.
We'll also see that in the code and you'll be surprised.
On the other hand, strings can have more than one line, but I don't mean using the backslash and the
PN as we have done so far.
Instead, at the moment of creating the string, we will do it using three opening and closing quotes.
They can be double or single and that allows you to make line breaks directly with the enter key.
Another thing you can do with strings is to check if a given substring is inside its content and Python
will tell you if it is true or false.
Finally, you can calculate the length of a string, how many characters it has using the Len Len function
that we will also see in the code in a moment.
Actually, let's not delay any more.
Let's go to Pi Charm right now to learn.
And here we come to Pi Charm and we're ready to see these string properties in action.
Let's start with a situation where I have a variable called name.
And the name in this variable is Harry.
But then I found out that Harry is not really Harry but Gary with a G.
Then I propose a method to replace the content of this variable to transform the H to a g.
Then I say, well, I can make name at zero index equal to the capital letter G.
Now I want to print the name and see how it's changed.
Let's go to run and let's go here.
Let's choose this file called Properties and I get an error and pay attention to what the error says.
It's a typo error.
It tells me that string objects do not support item assignment.
And this is fundamental.
One of the properties of strings is that immutability.
As Phil told you in the introduction of this lecture, neither their contents nor their order can be
changed.
Of course, you have seen that throughout this course.
We have done things like rewriting a variable.
So here I can say name again and I write Gary and this is not given me any problem.
It is going to let me do it.
I execute it and see it changed.
But let's not get confused.
What I changed here is the content of the variable, because the variables can vary, but the string
has not changed.
Now I've created a new string that I've hosted in the same variable, and now it shows me the string.
Gary with G but the string Harry I wasn't able to modify in any way.
The next property we already know it.
Strings can be concatenated.
So if I have, for example, the variable and one that says G A and the variable end to that has content
are Y.
Now I can create a concatenation of variables that is NW one plus NW two.
And then I print this.
We're going to see here, Gary, in a concatenation of two strings that were transformed into one here.
I could have even housed it in a new variable that contains this concatenation.
Now, this we already knew, but let's queue this up for the next property, which is that strings can
be multiplied.
You know that we can use the plus sign to concatenate.
What happens if we use the multiplication sign?
We're going to put this asterisks after and one and we're going to put the value ten.
If I run this, we have ga ga ga ga repeated up to ten times and you can do this because it's a property
of the strings.
Let's move on to what follows.
Another thing that Phil told you a few minutes ago is that a string can contain several lines of code
and not necessarily through the spacebar and the end to indicate a line break, but write it directly
by using three pairs of double quotes or three single quotes.
And let's put this to the test with a poem.
Poems, you know, sometimes require line breaks in order to be written.
We're going to write it first without quotation marks.
We're going to write one that says Thousand Little White Fish.
We do the line break and enter it as follows As if boiled, enter the color of the water.
This poem is a haiku type poem that belongs to Konishi Reisen, and it is short but beautiful.
Let's select all of this.
Let's press the double quotation marks once, twice, and three times.
As you can see now, I don't get any errors.
And if I want to print the poem, what I'm going to get is the poem in its three lines as I expected
it to happen.
So this is another way to make line breaks in your strings.
Let's see one more thing.
I can check if a certain word or character exists in a string.
If I do it here inside print, we're going to ask for the word water exists in poem.
So I'm saying print the answer to the question Does water exist in poem as it is a question that is
answered with yes or no?
This is a Boolean type data type one that can only tell me true or false.
Actually, when printing it it's going to say true because water it is found in poem.
And if I were to look for sun, which is not found in poem, I will get false.
I can also ask it if a certain word or character or whatever it is not in my string.
I do this by asking it if sun is not in poem and it will give me back true.
Because it is true that sun is not in poem.
If I look for water, which it is in my haiku, I will receive false because it is false that water
is not in the poem.
I hope you understand this logic of double negation.
So these are the most important properties of strings.
We're going to get to something new in the next lecture because we're going to get to the other types
of data that we don't know yet.
So let's get to it.